Why genC?
as we all know cognizant is one of the most reputate leading technology company and personally I think as a fresher i will be really lucky
if I can start my career in a company like cognizant in genC role.
From what I have read and learnt genC means generation Cognizant. 
and in the job description it says programmer analyst and from what i learnt is that this role is very flexible, meaning you don't have to master a specific area rather you will learn abi=out many things like testing, develop, analyze, maintain some application and i feel like for a fresher this is the best opportunity.

Why should I hire you?
Sir I would say my biggest quality is positive mindset, eager to learn new skills and adaptive nature.
So you see at that time I was not serious about BDE internship but yes I gave my best in the interview, so I was really shocked to learn that I got the inernship.
I had no prior knowledge in wordpress, wix, shopify, seo, e-commerce site making etc. So i was not confident enough when I joined that internship, compared to my fellow colleague who had already have some experience in this field 
So, I used to study a lot about this topics after coming home which was reallly stressfull for my health but I knew to keep in the competition I have to upgrade my skill level.
And after some days they took some tests, So I was really happy when I came to know that I scored better than him.
Also rather than that I learnt from that intership is that you have to build a strong connection with your mntors, seniors and team members to be successsfull. you see I used to go out of my way to have a conversion with them, I really enjoyed my time there.

why switch from etce to cse?
well yu see I did not planned to do b.tech in first place beacuse my financial background was not strong enough..so, I chose the second best choice at the time and have you heard of Ramakrishna Mission Shilpmandira in Belur . It's actually the best polytehnic college out there in respect of culture, study, placements etc.
But I was really unclucky what happened was that I was in 2021 passout batch. So, many company actually in the beginnig of 2020 then lockdown happen and all the hiring process stopped. then my only choice was to take an educational loan under student credit card and go for b.tech 
and I will be honest I choose my stream looking at the placement situation like in which stream i will get the more opotunities to be placed and so we have attend an jelet exam. my rank was good enough to get CSE and ECE both but I chose CSE at that time just because of the placement and 
yes now I can certainly say that it was a right choice, because I have friends in ECE department too and I know their carriculam does not help them to learn more programming languages and we alll know that programming languages are the basic requirements for any job hiring process.

any questions?
So, last week when I was searching about genC program internet, I came to know that there is a certain training period before FTE, so please tell me about this trainig period structure.
Also i read that there is a chance if you are a good performer in training period there is a chance of upgradation of candidature from genC to genC Elevate, genc next etc.

strenght: career oriented person
weekness: overly critical about my own work. so, sometimes it decreases the self confidence.

cognizant ceo:: Ravi Kumar s
